Notes on Coordinate Systems
---------------------------
OpenGL expects all vertices (that we want visible) to be normalized.
This is referred to as normalized device coordinates (NDC).

Some calculations are easier in certain coordinate systems.
There are 5 we should know:
- Local Space or Object Space
- World Space
- View Space or Eye Space
- Clip Space
- Screen Space

To transform coords from one space to the next, we use several
transformation matrices, the most important being:
- Model Matrix
- View Matrix
- Projection Matrix

Model Matrix: Local Space -> World Space
View Matrix: World Space -> View Space
Projection Matrix: View Space -> Clip Space
Viewport Transform: Clip Space -> Screen Space

Notes on Transformations
---------------------------
1. Object-local transformations (typical for moving/rotating/scaling) an object in the world:

glm::mat4 model = glm::mat4(1.0f);                  // start identity
model = glm::translate(model, position);            // move the object to world position
model = glm::rotate(model, angle, axis);            // rotate around its origin
model = glm::scale(model, scale);                   // scale the object

- Scaled first, then rotated, then translated

2. rotation around a point other than the origin

glm::mat4 model = glm::mat4(1.0f);
model = glm::translate(model, pivotPoint);
model = glm::rotate(model, angle, axis);
model = glm::translate(model, -pivotPoint);

- Translated to a point, rotated, then translated back

Notes on Basic Lighting
---------------------------
Lighting in OpenGL is based on approximations of reality using simplified models.
One of these models is called the Phong lighting model.

Phong lighting is composed of three parts: ambient, diffuse, and specular lighting

DEF:
	Ambient: even when it is dark there is usually still some light somewhere in the
		world (the moon, a distant light) so objects are almost never completely dark. To simulate
		this we use an ambient lighting constant that always gives the object some color.

		We can add ambient lighting by taking the color of the light and multiplying it with a small
		constant ambient factor. Then we multiply that with the color of the object and use that as the color
	
		Ambient lighting is a simplified version of Global Illumination

	Diffuse: simulates the directional impact a light object has on an object. This is the
		most visually significant component of the lighting model. The more a part of an object faces
		the light source, the brighter it becomes.

		What we need to calculate diffuse lighting:
		- Normal vector: a vector that is perpendicular to the vertex surface
		- Directed light ray: a direction vector that is the difference vector between the light's position and the fragment's position.

	Specular: simulates the bright spot of a light that appears on shiny objects. Specular
		highlights are more inclined to the color of the light than the color of the object.

		To add specular lighting to a scene, we first calculate a reflection vector by reflecting the light
		direction around the normal vector. Then we calculate the angular distance between this reflection
		vector and the view direction. The closer the angle between them, the greater the impact of the specular
		light. The resulting effect is that we see a bit of a highlight when looking at the light's direction 
		reflected via the surface.

		So we calculate the view vector, then the specular intensity, and multiply this with the light color and
		add to the ambient and diffuse components